environmentSetup.md, before:

# Environment Setup #

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate how you might configure a
development, test and deployment scenario on your workstation and on Azure 
using Docker. You will need setup one or more Docker hosts and thus you'll
need to setup some base tooling.

## Windows Pre-Requisites ##

Windows users should install Git for Windows from http://msysgit.github.io/.

This will provide both Git and a Bash shell. We will use the Bash shell as a
convenience since the scripts we have built are Bash scripts.

## Configure.sh ##

The helper scripts provided are configured in scripts/config.sh. You will
need to screate this file. We provide a template file to get you started
with good defaults where we can. Start by copying the template:

    $ cp script/config.tmpl config.sh
    
Now edit this file, being sure to change any entries of the form
'< DESCRIPTIVE TEST >'.

## Install Docker and Docker Machine ##

We will use Docker Machine to create our Docker Hosts. 

On Windows open a Bash shell (search for "Unix Bash" after installing Git
for Windows):

$ curl -L https://get.docker.com/builds/Windows/x86_64/docker-latest.exe > /bin/docker
$ curl -L https://github.com/docker/machine/releases/download/v0.2.0/docker-machine_windows-amd64.exe > /bin/docker-machine

See the Docker website for instructions on installing Docker and Docker 
Machine on other platforms see: http://docs.docker.com/machine/

### Configure Docker Machine ##

Docker Machine needs to have access to your Azure subscription. If you don't
already have an Azure subscription you can get a free trial at 
http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/free-trial/

Once you have an active subscription run the following commands in a bash shell:

$ openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:1024 -keyout mycert.pem -out mycert.pem
$ openssl pkcs12 -export -out mycert.pfx -in mycert.pem -name "My Certificate"
$ openssl x509 -inform pem -in mycert.pem -outform der -out mycert.cer

Now you need to go to the Azure portal (https://portal.azure.com). In the "Settings" 
section select "Management Certificates" and upload mycert.cer.

Grab your subscription ID from the portal, you will need this in the
next step.

## Create Docker Hosts ##

As a minimum you will need a Docker host for development. You'll most likely
want this to be on your local machine. So run the following command (as an 
administrator):

$ docker-machine create -d hyper-v MACHINE_NAME

If you want to push the application to a staging server for testing before 
production you will need a host to act as your staging server. This could be 
the same host as your development machine since this is not a real application. 
Although in production you would likely want it to be a separate host. This
could be a local or an on-premise machine, alternatively it could be cloud
based machine. We'll put ours in Microsoft Azure:

$ docker-machine create -d azure --azure-location="Central US" --azure-subscription-id="AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID" --azure-subscription-cert="mycert.pem" MACHINE_NAME

In the above command be sure to
change AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID to your subscription ID retrieved from the portal
and the MACHINE_NAME with the name you set in script/config.sh.

You may also want to create a Docker host to act as your "production" server. 
Again, since this is just an example project you could use the same machine as your
development machine. Though we will use a separate Azure machine:

$ docker-machine create -d azure --azure-location="Central US" --azure-subscription-id="AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID" --azure-subscription-cert="mycert.pem" MACHINE_NAME

The names of the Docker hosts used by the scripts are set in the script/config.sh 
file. These should match the machine names used above. By default
these are tutorialDev, tutorialStage and tutorialProd. If you want to use just
one or two Docker hosts, or you want to use different names for your machines
edit the values in script/config.sh. The default values are:

## Open Ports on Docker Machines ##

It is necessary to open the appropriate ports on your Docker hosts to allow 
access to the applications. At a minimum you need to open the following ports
for the ASP.Net application:

    - port 80 on the production machine
    - port 8080 on the staging machine
    - port 8888 on the dev machine
  
  Note we use a different port for each role to allow a single host to act as
  all three machines. In a real project you would likely have separate machines
  for each of these roles and thus we would likely use the same port.
  
  You may also want to open the port for the Java application as follows:
  
    - port 5000 on the production machine
    - port 5050 on the staging machine
    - port 5555 on the dev machine

Commit message:

add note about staging name needing to be world unique

environmentSetup.md, after:

# Environment Setup #

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate how you might configure a
development, test and deployment scenario on your workstation and on Azure 
using Docker. You will need setup one or more Docker hosts and thus you'll
need to setup some base tooling.

## Windows Pre-Requisites ##

Windows users should install Git for Windows from http://msysgit.github.io/.

This will provide both Git and a Bash shell. We will use the Bash shell as a
convenience since the scripts we have built are Bash scripts.

## Configure.sh ##

The helper scripts provided are configured in scripts/config.sh. You will
need to screate this file. We provide a template file to get you started
with good defaults where we can. Start by copying the template:

    $ cp script/config.tmpl config.sh
    
Now edit this file, being sure to change (at least) the
STAGING_MACHINE_NAME which must be world unique.

## Install Docker and Docker Machine ##

We will use Docker Machine to create our Docker Hosts. 

On Windows open a Bash shell (search for "Unix Bash" after installing Git
for Windows):

$ curl -L https://get.docker.com/builds/Windows/x86_64/docker-latest.exe > /bin/docker
$ curl -L https://github.com/docker/machine/releases/download/v0.2.0/docker-machine_windows-amd64.exe > /bin/docker-machine

See the Docker website for instructions on installing Docker and Docker 
Machine on other platforms see: http://docs.docker.com/machine/

### Configure Docker Machine ##

Docker Machine needs to have access to your Azure subscription. If you don't
already have an Azure subscription you can get a free trial at 
http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/free-trial/

Once you have an active subscription run the following commands in a bash shell:

$ openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:1024 -keyout mycert.pem -out mycert.pem
$ openssl pkcs12 -export -out mycert.pfx -in mycert.pem -name "My Certificate"
$ openssl x509 -inform pem -in mycert.pem -outform der -out mycert.cer

Now you need to go to the Azure portal (https://portal.azure.com). In the "Settings" 
section select "Management Certificates" and upload mycert.cer.

Grab your subscription ID from the portal, you will need this in the
next step.

## Create Docker Hosts ##

As a minimum you will need a Docker host for development. You'll most likely
want this to be on your local machine. So run the following command (as an 
administrator):

$ docker-machine create -d hyper-v MACHINE_NAME

If you want to push the application to a staging server for testing before 
production you will need a host to act as your staging server. This could be 
the same host as your development machine since this is not a real application. 
Although in production you would likely want it to be a separate host. This
could be a local or an on-premise machine, alternatively it could be cloud
based machine. We'll put ours in Microsoft Azure:

$ docker-machine create -d azure --azure-location="Central US" --azure-subscription-id="AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID" --azure-subscription-cert="mycert.pem" MACHINE_NAME

In the above command be sure to
change AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID to your subscription ID retrieved from the portal
and the MACHINE_NAME with the name you set in script/config.sh.

You may also want to create a Docker host to act as your "production" server. 
Again, since this is just an example project you could use the same machine as your
development machine. Though we will use a separate Azure machine:

$ docker-machine create -d azure --azure-location="Central US" --azure-subscription-id="AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID" --azure-subscription-cert="mycert.pem" MACHINE_NAME

The names of the Docker hosts used by the scripts are set in the script/config.sh 
file. These should match the machine names used above. By default
these are tutorialDev, tutorialStage and tutorialProd. If you want to use just
one or two Docker hosts, or you want to use different names for your machines
edit the values in script/config.sh. The default values are:

## Open Ports on Docker Machines ##

It is necessary to open the appropriate ports on your Docker hosts to allow 
access to the applications. At a minimum you need to open the following ports
for the ASP.Net application:

    - port 80 on the production machine
    - port 8080 on the staging machine
    - port 8888 on the dev machine
  
  Note we use a different port for each role to allow a single host to act as
  all three machines. In a real project you would likely have separate machines
  for each of these roles and thus we would likely use the same port.
  
  You may also want to open the port for the Java application as follows:
  
    - port 5000 on the production machine
    - port 5050 on the staging machine
    - port 5555 on the dev machine
